Atredis Partners ⚫ Bene Diagnoscitur, Bene Curatur Confidential ⚫ For Intended Recipient Only
Prepared for Agoric Systems
Operating Company
September 21, 2022 (version
1.1)
Atredis Partners www.atredis.com
Agoric
Inter Protocol Assessment
Security Assessment Report
Project Team:
Technical Testing Brandon Perry and Loren
Browman
Technical Editing Darren Kemp and Sara Bettes
Project Management Sara Bettes

-- 1 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 2
Table of Contents
Engagement Overview ............................................................................................... 3
Assessment Components and Objectives ................................................................. 3
Engagement Tasks ..................................................................................................... 4
Runtime Analysis ................................................................................................. 4
Source Code Analysis ........................................................................................... 4
Configuration and Architecture Review .................................................................... 4
Executive Summary ................................................................................................... 5
Key Conclusions .................................................................................................. 5
Platform Overview ............................................................................................... 5
Findings Summary ............................................................................................. 12
Findings and Recommendations ..............................................................................13
Findings Summary ............................................................................................. 13
Findings Detail .................................................................................................. 13
Vault Factory: Lack of Input Validation When Adding New Vault Collateral Types .......... 14
Use Linter to Verify let and await Usage ................................................................ 16
Malformed Error Message when Pool Minimum Liquidity Insufficient............................ 17
Appendix I: Assessment Methodology ....................................................................18
Appendix II: Engagement Team Biographies ..........................................................21
Appendix III: About Atredis Partners .....................................................................26

-- 2 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 3
Engagement Overview
Assessment Components and Objectives
Agoric Systems Operating Company (“Agoric”) recently engaged Atredis Partners (“Atredis”)
to perform the Inter Protocol Assessment of the Agoric platform. Objectives included
validation that Agoric smart-contract platform was developed and deployed with security best
practices in mind.
Testing was performed from May 30 through June 23, by Brandon Perry and Loren Browman
of the Atredis Partners team, with Sara Bettes providing project management and delivery
oversight. For Atredis Partners’ assessment methodology, please see Appendix I of this
document, and for team biographies, please see Appendix II. Specific testing components and
testing tasks are included below.
COMPONENT ENGAGEMENT TASKS
Inter Protocol Assessment
Assessment Targets • VaultFactory Contract
• Automated Market Maker (AMM) Contract
• Parity Stability Mechanism Contract
• Reserve + Rewards Mechanism
• BLD Boost Contract
Assessment Tasks • Source-Assisted Penetration Testing of the Inter Protocol
• Analysis of all processing logic to ensure it meets
documented expectations
• Manual and automated runtime application testing
• Application spidering, fuzzing and fault injection
• PoC generation and validation of findings
• Development of adversarial unit tests where appropriate
Reporting and Analysis
Analysis and Deliverables • Status Reporting and Realtime Communication
• Comprehensive Engagement Deliverable
• Engagement Outbrief and Remediation Review
The ultimate goal of the assessment was to provide a clear picture of risks, vulnerabilities,
and exposures as they relate to accepted security best practices, such as those created by
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Open Web Application Security
Project (OWASP), or the Center for Internet Security (CIS). Augmenting these, Atredis
Partners also draws on its extensive experience in secure development and in testing high-
criticality applications and advanced exploitation.

-- 3 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 4
Engagement Tasks
Atredis Partners performed the following tasks, at a high level, for in-scope targets during the
engagement.
Runtime Analysis
For relevant software targets identified during the course of this engagement, Atredis
performed runtime analysis, using debugging and static analysis tools to analyze application
flow to aid in software security analysis. Where relevant, purpose-built tools such as custom
unit tests and customized clients were utilized to aid in vulnerability identification.
Source Code Analysis
Atredis Partners reviewed the in-scope application source code, with an eye for security-
relevant software defects. To aid in vulnerability discovery, application components were
mapped out and modeled until a thorough understanding of execution flow, code paths, and
application design and architecture were obtained. To aid in this process, the assessment
team engaged key stakeholders and members of the development team, where possible, to
provide structured walkthroughs and interviews, helping the team rapidly gain an
understanding of the application’s design and development lifecycle.
Configuration and Architecture Review
Atredis performed a high-level review of available documentation and configuration data with
an eye toward the overall functional design and soundness of the implementation. A key
aspect of this component was to identify gaps in the architecture and design regarding aspects
of design that reduce overall defensibility, aimed at pointing out fundamental issues in the
application architecture that should be addressed early in the development cycle as opposed
to later when the platform is closer to a full production state.
While specific vulnerabilities may be identified during the architecture and configuration
review, the intent was less on finding individual defects and more on how the design of a
given target affects its overall defensibility. Outcomes of the architecture review helped to
inform testing objectives throughout the rest of the engagement while also helping the client
define a long-term platform maturity and security design roadmap.

-- 4 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 5
Executive Summary
Testing targeted the Inter protocol which is comprised of 5 individual smart contracts
implementing various economic features. Atredis Partners assessed the Inter protocol as seen
in the public agoric-sdk repository at the commit beginning with fca3db8. The Agoric team
provided documentation for testing all contracts and was always available for support when
required.
Atredis Partners performed testing from the perspective of a regular system user with access
to all publicly exposed facets. Attacks requiring access to internal objects or creator facets
were also explored with the understanding that the associated risks are greatly mitigated by
the object-capability (OCAP) security architecture.
The focus of the testing was directed to ensuring all contract code paths safely validate user
input where possible and do not overly expose sensitive objects or internal state. Atredis also
prioritized test cases which seek to exploit the intended order of operations and reentrancy
hazards. Lower-level components responsible for translating messages across multiple VATs
in a distributed system were covered in a previous Kernel API assessment (delivered April 28,
2022) and are not currently under review.
Key Conclusions
Overall, Atredis Partners found the Inter protocol contracts to be well-thought out and well-
documented. The Agoric platform relies heavily on object capabilities which has been carefully
implemented throughout with no evidence to suggest any unintended exposure of sensitive
object references to untrusted parties.
Across all Inter protocol contracts, Atredis did not identify any issues which would undermine
contract logic to benefit an attacker. This includes minting new assets, over collecting
collateral, and arbitrary reward distributions.
Atredis recommends imposing restrictions on user supplied input size. Mitigation strategies
have been discussed and a solution has already been submitted for internal review. Some
code quality issues around linting and error reporting have also been reported as informational.
As in any security assessment, some general areas for improvement were noted, but overall
Atredis Partners would rate the tested components of Agoric’s platform as sound from a
security perspective and well-aligned with modern secure development practices.
Platform Overview
The Agoric platform is designed to enable decentralized finance (DeFi) applications written
in secure JavaScript smart contracts. All the contracts on the Agoric platform are executed
on top of Agoric’s smart contract framework Zoe. Zoe is responsible for handling payments,

-- 5 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 6
minting new assets, and performing trade operations. While Atredis needed to use the Zoe
framework during testing, Zoe itself was out of scope for the engagement.
At the time of testing Agoric is the sole publisher of smart contracts with all Inter protocol
contracts being registered and publicly accessible. All Inter contracts expose public facets to
limit access to sensitive methods which represent a major security boundary. Future
deployments will integrate user supplied smart contracts and care must be taken to ensure
developers understand the principles of least privilege and the object capabilities paradigm
to avoid making simple errors.
Each contract adds to the Inter protocol to provide an incentivized and decentralized digital
economy and requires independent consideration with respect the security risks and
concerns.
Vault Factory
The Vault Factory contract implements and manages treasury vaults. The Vault Factory owns
various vault managers for each collateral type and can mint IST to facilitate collateral backed
loans. The Vault Factory creates a vault director and exposes a public facet for user
interaction. When a user creates a vault using the available makeVaultInvitation, validation
is performed to ensure that the collateral type is supported, and that the initial minimum debt
is exceeded.
Vaults operate within parameters set by governance which includes the interest rate, liquidity
margin, loan fee, and the charging period. The accepted collateral types are decided by the
Vault Factory owner. Collateral type string identifiers are validated to contain only ASCII
characters and a few allowed symbols, but no length checks are performed as outlined in
Vault Factory: Lack of Input Validation When Adding New Vault Collateral Types.
When a loan is created, the mintAndReallocate method will mint all IST to satisfy the loan
which includes the principal amount plus the loan fee. The loan fee is placed in the rewards
pool and the principal amount is made available to the requesting user. Attacks affecting the
vault factory’s ability to mint IST may include accounting errors or preventing access to the
IST mint which would result in a denial-of-service scenario. Atredis did not identify any issues
related to minting IST within the vault factory.
Vaults are closed by creating an invitation with makeCloseInvitation. Only active or
liquidated vaults can be closed and must contain an Electronic Rights Transfer Protocol (ERTP)
payment greater than the remaining debt when creating the invitation. If an insufficient
payment is included, an assert is raised, a rejected promise is returned, and the vault is not
closed.

-- 6 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 7
Error{
message: 'Offer {"brand":"[Alleged: RUN brand]","value":"[0n]"} is not sufficient to
pay off debt {"brand":"[Alleged: RUN brand]","value":"[5250n]"}',
}
Error raised when submitting insufficient ERTP payment when closing vault
ERTP collateral payments are handled by Zoe and held in escrow when creating a vault to
take out a loan. The vault object must use its Zoe seat to query the current collateral amount.
Atredis did not identify any attacks that could confuse accounting records and benefit an
attacker.
Adjusting Balances
Vault owners can create an invitation with makeAdjustBalancesInvitation to alter collateral
and IST balances on active vaults. Care is taken to ensure that vault transfers cannot take
place while balances are being adjusted. An ERTP payment is required when submitting
proposals to adjust balances and must support the balance adjustment. This means a request
cannot be made which would result in an increase in debt beyond the allowed collateralization
ratio.
Vault collateral is recovered when adjusting balances and closing vaults manually or due to a
triggered liquidation. Atredis did not observe any paths which would result in an attacker
recovering additional collateral in these situations.
Potential issues around burning (destroying) incorrect amounts of IST when closing,
liquidating, and adjusting balances where also explored. The platform does not rely on user
input to calculate debt amounts and instead pulls the debt amount directly from the current
contract state using getCurrentDebt and subtracts any provided ERTP IST payment to safely
calculate the IST to be burned.
Fees
Fees are generated according to governed parameters and include both loan fees and interest
fees. Loan fees are a percentage of the requested loan charged when a loan is taken or
extended. If the loan is extended, the additional fee is calculated based on the extended
amount. Interest fees are a rate that is charged when the chargingPeriod elapses. Collecting
fees require that the user holds a reference to the Vault Factory machine facet which exposes
a closely held method makeCollectFeesInvitation. Fees can be collected using the invitation
to recover all fees across all vaults from the reward pool.

-- 7 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 8
Liquidation
Vault Factory will liquidate assets when the ratio of debt to collateral reaches a defined
threshold referred to as the liquidation margin. The liquidation margin is controlled by
governance and defines the margin required to maintain a loan. The Vault Manager is
responsible for submitting price quotes and triggering liquidations in processLiquidations
which operates on a map of prioritizedVaults that contains all vaults sorted by
collateralization ratio. Vaults which have the lowest collateralization are processed first, vaults
which exceed the liquidation margin are scheduled for an eventual liquidation. Atredis did not
identify any attacks that would allow vaults to be process out of the intended order.
The liquidation happens in liquidation.js in the liquidate method. A liquidator is passed
in and used to sell collateral to the AMM in attempt reduce the IST debt to a zero balance.
IST proceeds from this sale are subtracted from the remaining vault debt before being burned.
Collateral remaining in the vault is left for the user to claim as a payout.
Transfers
Vault owners also have the option to transfer a vault to another user by providing a transfer
invitation created by makeTransferInvitation. A transfer invitation can be created regardless
of the current debt to collateral ratio. Users who wish to buy the vault can inspect the transfer
invitation to view the state of the vault and determine if they would like to proceed with the
transfer. When a transfer invitation is created, the current state of the vault is saved, collateral
is locked, the phase is set to TRANSFER, and the vault is no longer available to the original
owner. The Vault Holder object helps to enforce vault access during the transition by ensuring
the vault has no owner after the transfer is started. The vault can then be claimed later by
submitting the transfer invitation with a Zoe offer.
Automated Market Maker (AMM)
The Automated Market Maker (AMM) is central to several of the smart contracts within the
Agoric environment. As such, some functions exposed by the contract are discussed in other
sections. The AMM consumes two governed parameters, the PoolFee and the ProtocolFee.
The AMM maintains a constant product ratio between two pools during trading to ensure
liquidity. This means that during the operation of trading between pools, the product of the
ratio of assets in each pool will always remain constant. For instance, two pools with a ratio
of 4:1 will always have a constant product of 4. Two pools with a ratio of 7:3 will always have
a constant product of 21 between the two pools.

-- 8 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 9
To protect against arithmetic errors in the AMM when adding and removing liquidity between
pools, Agoric strictly uses arbitrary precision natural numbers. The AmountMath library
performs arithmetic on arbitrarily large integers avoiding the need for the weaker native
JavaScript implementations. Agoric also enforces positive natural numbers throughout the
code base with a forked library called isNat so that negative numbers cannot be accidentally
used during computation.
Error {
message: 'value "[-1499999000n]" must be a natural number',
}
Example Error Showing Negative Value
The makeAddLiquidityInvitation, makeAddLiquidityAtRateInvitation, and
makeRemoveLiquidityInvitation functions enable constant product liquidity and are
consumed in the reserves contract. These functions are heavily used by the reserve contract
to enable governance and management of liquidity using collateral reserves. They return
invitations to manage the liquidity of a given pool using the collateral of a given reserve.
The vault factory contract uses the two swap functions makeSwapInvitation and
makeSwapOutInvitation. makeSwapInvitation and makeSwapInInvitation are the same
method. The swap methods return invitations to perform an asset swap within the pool.
AMM also contains numerous Public Facet methods that are read-only and don't affect state.
The only function exposed solely to the AMM creator is makeCollectFeesInvitation. This
function returns an invitation to collect the fees generated while trading between pools.
Security concerns for the AMM include creating pools that may trick users into choosing a
malicious asset pool. While there is always some chance of a user misclicking or misreading,
Agoric enforces a small subset of ASCII characters for pool names, preventing similar-looking
Unicode characters. Other issues may involve adding or removing liquidity maliciously or
stealing fees that only the creator should have access to. During testing, the AMM was resilient
potential attacks involving negative or unexpected numbers.
BLD Boost
The BLD Boost contract exposes three functions: 2 public and 1 available to the object creator
only.
The public functions makeLoanInvitation and makeReturnAttInvitation create invitations to
exercise a loan contract or attestation. Only the holder of the creator facet can create a loan
attestation using provideAttestationMaker.

-- 9 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 10
The BLD Boost contract itself handles interest due and ensures that debt does not surpass
the loan limit. The Amount and Nat libraries are consistently used throughout the BLD Boost
contract code to ensure correctness of arithmetic during interest or loan agreement
calculations
Parity Stability Module
The Parity Stability Module (PSM) provides an interface for users to trade an accepted
reference stable token (the anchor) for IST at a defined ratio normally set to parity (1:1).
This mechanism facilitates stable token arbitrage by incentivizing users to trade the stable
token for IST or vice versa to bring the currencies back to parity and thereby reducing the
volatility of the native IST token.
PSM can mint new IST when users provide anchor currency in exchange for IST and the PSM
can access the anchor pool when users provide IST in exchange for the anchor currency. IST
fees are associated with trading in either direction and are controlled by governed parameters
GiveStableFee and WantStableFee. A limit can also be set on the ceiling of IST the PSM may
mint before asserting an error.
The PSM does not expose significant attack surface beyond what is already protected by OCAP.
The makeSwapInvitation method is exposed by the public facet and allows a user to perform
a currency swap without exposing any sensitive internal object references. Atredis did not
find any scenarios by which an attacker can cause additional IST to be minted or collect fees
intended for the PSM object creator.
Reserve
The reserve contract within the Agoric environment allows governance to keep and remove
allotments of assets in the reserve for removing and adding liquidity to a pool. Some issues
that may arise are requesting more collateral than is available in the reserve or burning assets
to reduce liquidity.
makeAddCollateralInvitation creates an invitation to add collateral to a given reserve. At
the time of writing, makeRedeemLiquidityTokensInvitation was not implemented and was
not tested.
addIssuer does support Cyrillic and other Unicode characters which may allow an attacker to
trick users with similarly named issuers. However, this value is only used for debugging and
is not presented to the user in any way. Another mechanism is used on the client-side that
allows users to give issuers "pet names".

-- 10 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 11
addLiquidityToPool requires a minimum amount of initial liquidity which protects from users
maliciously calling the function with arbitrarily small amounts of assets. This minimum amount
is set when creating a new pool. During testing, Atredis noticed the error for this scenario was
slightly malformed as noted in Malformed Error Message when Pool Minimum Liquidity
Insufficient.
message: 'The minimum initial liquidity is [object Object], rejecting [object Object]',
Example Error for Insufficient Liquidity
While the exception has some issues printing the values, it prevents using too little liquidity.
The reserve contract relies on the makeAddLiquidityInvitation,
makeAddLiquidityAtRateInvitation, and makeRemoveLiquidityInvitation AMM functions
to govern liquidity.

-- 11 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 12
Findings Summary
In performing testing for this assessment, Atredis Partners identified one (1) low severity
finding and two (2) informational findings. No high or critical severity findings were noted.
As stated earlier, none of these issues constitute a potential for direct compromise, and in the
case of the low severity vulnerability, other protections in the platform mitigate the issue.
Atredis defines vulnerability severity ranking as follows:
• Critical: These vulnerabilities expose systems and applications to immediate threat of
compromise by a dedicated or opportunistic attacker.
• High: These vulnerabilities entail greater effort for attackers to exploit and may result
in successful network compromise within a relatively short time.
• Medium: These vulnerabilities may not lead to network compromise but could be
leveraged by attackers to attack other systems or applications components or be
chained together with multiple medium findings to constitute a successful compromise.
• Low: These vulnerabilities are largely concerned with improper disclosure of
information and should be resolved. They may provide attackers with important
information that could lead to additional attack vectors or lower the level of effort
necessary to exploit a system.

-- 12 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 13
Findings and Recommendations
The following section outlines findings identified via manual and automated testing over the
course of this engagement. Where necessary, specific artifacts to validate or replicate issues
are included, as well as Atredis Partners’ views on finding severity and recommended
remediation.
Findings Summary
The below tables summarize the number and severity of the unique issues identified
throughout the engagement.
CRITICAL HIGH MEDIUM LOW INFO
0 0 0 1 2
Findings Detail
FINDING NAME SEVERITY
Vault Factory: Lack of Input Validation When Adding New Vault
Collateral Types Low
Use Linter to Verify let and await Usage Info
Malformed Error Message when Pool Minimum Liquidity Insufficient Info

-- 13 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 14
Vault Factory: Lack of Input Validation When Adding New
Vault Collateral Types
Severity: Low
Finding Overview
There is no limit imposed on string size when creating new collateral types and specifying a
brand keyword. As a result, the string size is constrained by the underlying JavaScript runtime.
Specifying extremely large values is allowed which causes a memory exhaustion issue later
in execution.
New collateral types are added by calling addVaultType which is considered a “closely held”
method only accessible to trusted parties. Therefore, this finding is being reported with low
severity.
Finding Detail
The following test unit was written to create a new collateral type with a brand string size of
100MB in size which resulted in memory exhaustion:
test('long keywords', async t => {
const {
zoe,
aethKit: { mint: aethMint, brand: aethBrand },
runKit: { brand: runBrand },
} = t.context;
const services = await setupServices(
t,
[15n],
AmountMath.make(aethBrand, 1n),
buildManualTimer(t.log),
undefined,
500n,
);
const { lender, vaultFactory } = services.vaultFactory;
// long keywords
const kw = 'A'.repeat(100 * 1000 * 1000);
// UTF-16 plane 0 keywords not allowed
// const kw = 'A\u2602';
const chit = makeIssuerKit(kw);
const params = defaultParamValues(chit.brand);
// access to the vaultFactory allows you to create new collateral type
await E(vaultFactory).addVaultType(chit.issuer, kw, params);
await E(lender).getCollateralManager(chit.brand);
});
Reproduction unit test code

-- 14 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 15
<--- JS stacktrace --->
FATAL ERROR: CALL_AND_RETRY_LAST Allocation failed - JavaScript heap out of memory
JavaScript heap memory exhaustion
Recommendation(s)
Reduce the acceptable string length to a sane value expected by the platform. Keyword
validation in cleanProposal.js is part of the Zoe framework but could be extended to perform
the additional length check.
The Agoric team has already proposed a deeper fix by implementing a limitation on maximum
SwingSet message size, effectively reducing the maximum total message size to 4MB. This
solution is preferred and will address the issue outlined in this finding.
References
CWE-20: Improper Input Validation: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/20.html

-- 15 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 16
Use Linter to Verify let and await Usage
Severity: Info
Finding Overview
The usage of the let and await keyword can be dangerous in the context of smart contracts
in the Agoric ecosystem. A grammar linter can verify safe usage during development.
Finding Detail
Due to the distributed nature of smart contracts, the JavaScript keywords let and await can
introduce security issues. This is heavily documented by Agoric in both online and video
documents. A linter can verify that they are used safely while development is occurring.
During the engagement, a security issue was found in the vault factory implementation by
Agoric that was the result of a module-level let declaration for a variable. At the time of this
writing, Agoric is having active discussions regarding incorporating such linter rules into active
development practice.
Recommendation(s)
Enabling lint checks for non-top level awaits and module-level lets can prevent from
accidental security lapses during development.
References
CWE-1126: Declaration of Variable with Unnecessarily Wide Scope
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1126.html
CWE-755: Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/755.html
GITHUB: Lint rules for contracts
https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/issues/4770

-- 16 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 17
Malformed Error Message when Pool Minimum Liquidity
Insufficient
Severity: Info
Finding Overview
The error message returned when a pool does not meet the minimum liquidity does not use
proper formatting.
Finding Detail
When reproducing the error for not meeting the minimum liquidity for a pool, Atredis noticed
the error message did not contain the expected information.
message: 'The minimum initial liquidity is [object Object], rejecting [object Object]',
Example Error from Insufficient Initial Liquidity
The [object Object] in the message should be templated out to retrieve the exact values
for the message to be useful for the programmer or user.
Recommendation(s)
The assert does not include the details (X) template.
assert(
AmountMath.isGTE(centralAmount, minPoolLiquidity),
`The minimum initial liquidity is ${minPoolLiquidity}, rejecting ${centralAmount}`,
);
Line 156 in /src/vpool-xyk-amm/addPool.js
The error string should be changed to.
X`The minimum initial liquidity is ${minPoolLiquidity}, rejecting ${centralAmount}`,
Using the X Templating to Return the Correct Values
References
CWE-755: Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions:
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/755.html

-- 17 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 18
Appendix I: Assessment Methodology
Atredis Partners draws on our extensive experience in penetration testing,
reverse engineering, hardware/software exploitation, and embedded
systems design to tailor each assessment to the specific targets, attacker
profile, and threat scenarios relevant to our client’s business drivers and
agreed upon rules of engagement.
Where applicable, we also draw on and reference specific industry best
practices, regulations, and principles of sound systems and software design
to help our clients improve their products while simultaneously making
them more stable and secure.
Our team takes guidance from industry-wide standards and practices such as the National Institute of
Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Special Publications, the Open Web Application Security Project
(OWASP), and the Center for Internet Security (CIS).
Throughout the engagement, we communicate findings as they are identified and validated, and
schedule ongoing engagement meetings and touchpoints, keeping our process open and transparent
and working closely with our clients to focus testing efforts where they provide the most value.
In most engagements, our primary focus is on creating purpose-built test suites and toolchains to
evaluate the target, but we do utilize off-the-shelf tools where applicable as well, both for general patch
audit and best practice validation as well as to ensure a comprehensive and consistent baseline is
obtained.
Research and Profiling Phase
Our research-driven approach to testing begins with a detailed examination of the target, where we
model the behavior of the application, network, and software components in their default state. We map
out hosts and network services, patch levels, and application versions. We frequently use a number of
private and public data sources to collect Open Source Intelligence about the target, and collaborate
with client personnel to further inform our testing objectives.
For network and web application assessments, we perform network and host discovery as well as map
out all available application interfaces and inputs. For hardware assessments, we study the design and
implementation, down to a circuit-debugging level. In reviewing source code or compiled application
code, we map out application flow and call trees and develop a solid working understand of how the
application behaves, thus helping focus our validation and testing efforts on areas where vulnerabilities
might have the highest impact to the application’s security or integrity.
Analysis and Instrumentation Phase
Once we have developed a thorough understanding of the target, we use a number of specialized and
custom-developed tools to perform vulnerability discovery as well as binary, protocol, and runtime
analysis, frequently creating engagement-specific software tools which we share with our clients at the
close of any engagement.
We identify and implement means to monitor and instrument the behavior of the target, utilizing
debugging, decompilation and runtime analysis, as well as making use of memory and filesystem

-- 18 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 19
forensics analysis to create a comprehensive attack modeling testbed. Where they exist, we also use
common off-the-shelf, open-source and any extant vendor-proprietary tools to aid in testing and
evaluation.
Validation and Attack Phase
Using our understanding of the target, our team creates a series of highly-specific attack and fault
injection test cases and scenarios. Our selection of test cases and testing viewpoints are based on our
understanding of which approaches are most relevant to the target and will gain results in the most
efficient manner, and built in collaboration with our client during the engagement.
Once our test cases are validated and specific attacks are confirmed, we create proof-of-concept artifacts
and pursue confirmed attacks to identify extent of potential damage, risk to the environment, and
reliability of each attack scenario. We also gather all the necessary data to confirm vulnerabilities
identified and work to identify and document specific root causes and all relevant instances in software,
hardware, or firmware where a given issue exists.
Education and Evidentiary Phase
At the conclusion of active testing, our team gathers all raw data, relevant custom toolchains, and
applicable testing artifacts, parses and normalizes these results, and presents an initial findings brief to
our clients, so that remediation can begin while a more formal document is created. Additionally, our
team shares confirmed high-risk findings throughout the engagement so that our clients may begin to
address any critical issues as soon as they are identified.
After the outbrief and initial findings review, we develop a detailed research deliverable report that
provides not only our findings and recommendations but also an open and transparent narrative about
our testing process, observations and specific challenges in developing attacks against our targets, from
the real world perspective of a skilled, motivated attacker.
Automation and Off-The-Shelf Tools
Where applicable or useful, our team does utilize licensed and open-source software to aid us throughout
the evaluation process. These tools and their output are considered secondary to manual human
analysis, but nonetheless provide a valuable secondary source of data, after careful validation and
reduction of false positives.
For runtime analysis and debugging, we rely extensively on Hopper, IDA Pro and Hex-Rays, as well as
platform-specific runtime debuggers, and develop fuzzing, memory analysis, and other testing tools
primarily in Ruby and Python.
In source auditing, we typically work in Visual Studio, Xcode and Eclipse IDE, as well as other markup
tools. For automated source code analysis we will typically use the most appropriate toolchain for the
target, unless client preference dictates another tool.
Network discovery and exploitation make use of Nessus, Metasploit, and other open-source scanning
tools, again deferring to client preference where applicable. Web application runtime analysis relies
extensively on the Burp Suite, Fuzzer and Scanner, as well as purpose-built automation tools built in
Go, Ruby and Python.

-- 19 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 20
Engagement Deliverables
Atredis Partners deliverables include a detailed overview of testing steps and testing dates, as well as
our understanding of the specific risk profile developed from performing the objectives of the given
engagement.
In the engagement summary we focus on “big picture” recommendations and a high-level overview of
shared attributes of vulnerabilities identified and organizational-level recommendations that might
address these findings.
In the findings section of the document, we provide detailed information about vulnerabilities identified,
provide relevant steps and proof-of-concept code to replicate these findings, and our recommended
approach to remediate the issues, developing these recommendations collaboratively with our clients
before finalization of the document.
Our team typically makes use of both DREAD and NIST CVE for risk scoring and naming, but as part of
our charter as a client-driven and collaborative consultancy, we can vary our scoring model to a given
client’s preferred risk model, and in many cases will create our findings using the client’s internal findings
templates, if requested.
Sample deliverables can be provided upon request, but due to the highly specific and confidential nature
of Atredis Partners’ work, these deliverables will be heavily sanitized, and give only a very general sense
of the document structure.

-- 20 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 21
Appendix II: Engagement Team Biographies
Shawn Moyer, Founding Partner and CEO
Shawn Moyer scopes, plans, and coordinates security research and consulting projects for the Atredis
Partners team, including reverse engineering, binary analysis, advanced penetration testing, and private
vulnerability research. As CEO, Shawn works with the Atredis leadership team to build and grow the
Atredis culture, making Atredis Partners a home for some of the best minds in information security, and
ensuring Atredis continues to deliver research and consulting services that exceed our client’s
expectations.
Experience
Shawn brings over 25 years of experience in information security, with an extensive background in
penetration testing, advanced security research including extensive work in mobile and Smart Grid
security, as well as advanced threat modeling and embedded reverse engineering.
Shawn has served as a team lead and consultant in enterprise security for numerous large initiatives in
the financial sector and the federal government, including IBM Internet Security Systems’ X-Force,
MasterCard, a large Federal agency, and Wells Fargo Securities, all focusing on emerging network and
application attacks and defenses.
In 2010, Shawn created Accuvant Labs’ Applied Research practice, delivering advanced research-driven
consulting to numerous clients on mobile platforms, critical infrastructure, medical devices and countless
other targets, growing the practice 1800% in its first year.
Prior to Accuvant, Shawn helped develop FishNet Security’s penetration testing team as a principal
security consultant, growing red team offerings and advanced penetration testing services, while being
twice selected as a consulting MVP.
Key Accomplishments
Shawn has written on emerging threats and other topics for Information Security Magazine and ZDNet,
and his research has been featured in the Washington Post, BusinessWeek, NPR and the New York
Times. Shawn is a twelve-time speaker at the Black Hat Briefings and has been an invited speaker at
other notable security conferences around the world.
Shawn is likely best known for delivering the first public research on social network security, pointing
out much of the threat landscape still exists on social network platforms today. Shawn also co-authored
an analysis of the state of the art in web browser exploit mitigation, creating the first in-depth
comparison of browser security models along with Dr. Charlie Miller, Chris Valasek, Ryan Smith, Joshua
Drake, and Paul Mehta.
Shawn studied Computer and Network Information Systems at Missouri University and the
University of Louisiana at Lafayette, holds numerous information security certifications, and
has been a frequent presenter at national and international security industry conferences.

-- 21 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 22
Brandon Perry, Principal Research Consultant
Brandon Perry's responsibilities include complex web application and web services assessments,
software reverse engineering, and source code reviews as well as red team and attack simulation
engagements.
Experience
Most recently, Brandon was a Senior Penetration Tester at NTT Security, and contributed to the Foxglove
Security blog at http://www.foxglovesecurity.com along with teammates (and now fellow Atredians)
Justin Kennedy and Stephen Breen.
Prior to NTT Security, Brandon worked as a developer at Rapid7, supporting the Metasploit Framework
and Nexpose vulnerability scanner. Brandon has also worked as a security engineer for Bethesda,
working on AAA game titles such as DOOM, Fallout 4, and Elder Scrolls Online.
Brandon's extensive experience as a software engineer across several complex application stacks gives
him key, practitioner-level insight into application security from the big picture down to the specifics of
implementation and remediation. This development background makes Brandon uniquely suited for roles
where interfacing and collaborating with development teams is crucial to a successful engagement.
Key Accomplishments
Brandon is the author of the No Starch book "Gray Hat C#", and the co-author of "Wicked Cool Shell
Scripts, 2nd edition", and has spoken at DerbyCon and Infosec Southwest on web application
vulnerabilities and exploit writing. Brandon has also heavily contributed to the Metasploit Framework
with code and exploits, as well as several other open source security tools.

-- 22 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 23
Loren Browman, Senior Research Consultant
Loren Browman has over 10 years of experience in both consulting and federal law enforcement
environments. His experiences range from deep security research in federal government to product and
application testing for Fortune 500 corporations. Loren is a recognized subject matter expert (SME) in
securing IoT products and advanced hardware testing methodology. Areas of expertise include reverse
engineering of hardware, firmware, and communication protocols.
Experience
Loren has conducted numerous large scale product security assessments including challenging black
box security assessments and secure design reviews.
Prior to joining Atredis, Loren was an operations supervisor and security researcher for the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP). This role included providing technical expertise to support police
investigations and leading security research efforts in order to circumvent security mechanisms and
develop deployable capabilities.
Key Accomplishments
Loren has developed numerous tools for accelerating research on a wide range of products. This includes
the development of a fuzzing suite for automotive Electronic Control Units over CAN bus vehicle
networks, this led to the discovery of multiple hidden services and exploits. More recently, Loren
published nrfsec, a tool for automating firmware recovery vulnerability on secured nrf51 System on
Chips.
Loren has studied Electrical and Computer Engineering at the British Columbia Institute of Technology
and has attended various specialized training sessions including the Arm IoT Exploit Laboratory, Power
Analysis and Glitching and is an Offensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP).

-- 23 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 24
Darren Kemp, Research Consulting Director
Darren Kemp leads and executes highly technical software security, network, and web application
assessments and advanced red team assessments, as well as complex reverse engineering and exploit
development projects.
Experience
Darren brings over a decade of professional experience in the information security space, spanning a
variety of roles and responsibilities. Darren's experience includes penetration testing, application
security assessments, malware and vulnerability analysis and reverse engineering.
Most recently, Darren was a security researcher for Duo Security's Duo Labs team, publishing externally
facing security research and supporting internal security efforts. Prior to Duo, Darren was a Senior
Security Consultant for Leviathan Security Group. Prior to Leviathan, Darren worked as a Threat Analyst
for Symantec's DeepSight Research Team.
Key Accomplishments
Darren has several widely-reported and publicly credited vulnerability disclosures in a number of major
software products, and his research has been featured on MSN, CNET, Wired, and other media outlets.
Darren developed advanced crashdump analysis tools as part of DARPA's CINDER program, and has
also made many contributions to the Metasploit Project.
Darren studied Computer Technology at the Southern Alberta Institute of Technology.

-- 24 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 25
Sara Bettes, Client Operations Associate
Sara Bettes assists the creation and completion of projects at Atredis Partners, ranging from the full
pre-sales process to project design and management, to final delivery and follow-up. Her goals are to
ensure all projects are executed in a way that reaches the goals of the client and assists the consultants
at every turn.
Experience
Prior to joining Atredis Partners, Sara led a team that planned international sporting competitions,
Olympic and national team qualifying events, as well as supported the mission of multiple non-profits.
Her experience includes Live Sports Commentating, Staffing Management, Safety Plan Creation, Event
Development, Public Relations, and Marketing efforts.
Key Accomplishments
Sara earned a bachelor’s degree in Mass Communications with an emphasis in Broadcast and Public
Relations from Oklahoma City University.

-- 25 of 26 --

Atredis Partners – Agoric RUN Protocol Assessment
Atredis Partners ⚫ Confidential Page 26
Appendix III: About Atredis Partners
Atredis Partners was created in 2013 by a team of security industry veterans who wanted to prioritize
offering quality and client needs over the pressure to grow rapidly at the expense of delivery and
execution. We wanted to build something better, for the long haul.
In six years, Atredis Partners has doubled in size annually, and has been named three times to the Saint
Louis Business Journal’s “Fifty Fastest Growing Companies” and “Ten Fastest Growing Tech Companies”.
Consecutively for the past three years, Atredis Partners has been listed on the Inc. 5,000 list of fastest
growing private companies in the United States.
The Atredis team is made up of some of the greatest minds in Information Security research and
penetration testing, and we’ve built our business on a reputation for delivering deeper, more advanced
assessments than any other firm in our industry.
Atredis Partners team members have presented research over forty times at the BlackHat Briefings
conference in Europe, Japan, and the United States, as well as many other notable security conferences,
including RSA, ShmooCon, DerbyCon, BSides, and PacSec/CanSec. Most of our team hold one or more
advanced degrees in Computer Science or engineering, as well as many other industry certifications and
designations. Atredis team members have authored several books, including The Android Hacker’s
Handbook, The iOS Hacker’s Handbook, Wicked Cool Shell Scripts, Gray Hat C#, and Black Hat Go.
While our client base is by definition confidential and we often operate under strict nondisclosure
agreements, Atredis Partners has delivered notable public security research on improving the security
at Google, Microsoft, The Linux Foundation, Motorola, Samsung and HTC products, and were the first
security research firm to be named in Qualcomm’s Product Security Hall of Fame. We’ve received four
research grants from the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency (DARPA), participated in research
for the CNCF (Cloud Native Computing Foundation) to advance the security of Kubernetes, worked with
OSTIF (The Open Source Technology Improvement Fund) and The Linux Foundation on the Core
Infrastructure Initiative to improve the security and safety of the Linux Kernel, and have identified
entirely new classes of vulnerabilities in hardware, software, and the infrastructure of the World Wide
Web.
In 2015, we expanded our services portfolio to include a wide range of advanced risk and security
program management consulting, expanding our services reach to extend from the technical trenches
into the boardroom. The Atredis Risk and Advisory team has extensive experience building mature
security programs, performing risk and readiness assessments, and serving as trusted partners to our
clients to ensure the right people are making informed decisions about risk and risk management.

-- 26 of 26 --