BHP Mobile Wallet
Security Assessment
Initial Report: December 30th, 2020
First Revision: January 8th, 2021
For :
BHP Network

-- 1 of 27 --

Confidentiality Statement
All information contained in this document is provided in confidence for the sole purpose of
adjudication of the document and shall not be published or disclosed wholly or in part to any
other party without CertiK's prior permission in writing and shall be held in safe custody. These
obligations shall not apply to information that is published or becomes known legitimately from
some source other than CertiK.
All transactions are subject to the appropriate CertiK Standard Terms and Conditions. Certain
information given in connection with this proposal is marked “In Commercial Confidence”. That
information is communicated in confidence, and disclosure of it to any person other than with
CertiK’s consent will be a breach of confidence actionable on the part of CertiK.
Disclaimer
This document is provided for information purposes only. CertiK accepts no responsibility for
any errors or omissions that it may contain.
This document is provided without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including but not
limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-
infringement. In no event shall CertiK be liable for any claim, damages or other liability (either
direct or indirect or consequential), whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising
from, out of or in connection with this document or the contents thereof.
This document represents our budgetary price proposal for the solution further described in
this herein and is provided for information and evaluation purposes only and is not currently a
formal offer capable of acceptance.

-- 2 of 27 --

Overview
Scope
At the start of the engagement, CertiK worked with BHP Network to identify the target and set
the limits on the scope of the test. A White Box type of testing approach was done where
CertiK performed the test with the source code available from the public bhp-wallet GitHub
repository.
Application Name BHP mobile wallet
Codebase GitHub Repository
Commits 507267efa3d788ce4c72821e4efeb3e534d9df16
Updated Commits 8d2c8ac4229d21b618264c38f4dff8ca854c179a
Audit Summary
Delivery Date Dec. 30, 2020
Method of Audit Static Analysis, Dynamic Testing
Consultants Engaged 2
Timeline Dec. 22, 2020 - Dec. 30, 2020
Vulnerability Summary
Total Issues 9
Total Meduim 3
Total Low 3
Total Informational 3

-- 3 of 27 --

Executive Summary
BHP Network engaged CertiK to perform an application penetration test for their mobile wallet.
The main objective of the engagement is to test the overall resiliency of the application to
various real-world attacks against the application’s controls and functions, and thereby be able
to identify its weaknesses and provide recommendations to fix and improve its overall security
posture.
CertiK started the test on December 22, 2020 and completed on December 30, 2020.
After a thorough review of the updated application, CertiK believes that the BHP application is
currently at a low risk level. Given the severity of the vulnerabilities on the application, it is
unlikely that the application will be directly compromised.
BHP has worked diligently to remediate security vulnerabilities discovered by CertiK,
significantly increasing the overall security posture of their application. Note that because the
mobile application is built with the "uni-app(https://uniapp.dcloud.io/)" framework, some
findings can't be directly addressed. In the long term, we recommend the application switch to
native apps to take advantage of native APIs to further secure the application.

-- 4 of 27 --

Findings
ID Title Severity Vulnerability
Class
Status
BHP-01 Unnecessary
App permissions
Medium Security
Misconfiguration
Fixed
BHP-02 Custom
keyboards not
disabled in BHP
wallet
Medium Information
Disclosure
Partially Fixed
BHP-03 Information
leakage via
screenshot
backgrounding
Low Information
Disclosure
Open
BHP-04 No root or
jailbreak
detection on
Android/iOS
application
Informational Reverse
Engineering and
Code Tampering
Open
BHP-05 Ineffective and
problematic
"confirm
password"
implmentation
Low Logic Flaws Fixed
BHP-06 Insecure
minimum
Android SDK
version
Informational Security
Misconfiguration
Fixed
BHP-07 Bad
cryptography
implementation
Medium Insufficient
Cryptography
Fixed
BHP-08 Mnemonic Informational Information Open

-- 5 of 27 --

display allow
screenshot
Disclosure
BHP-09 Uses of insecure
protocol
Low Security
Misconfiguration
Open

-- 6 of 27 --

BHP-01: Unnecessary App permissions
Severity: Medium
Description
When analyzing the AndroidManifest.xml file in the Android APK, we found that the
application requests access to an extensive amount of unnecessary permissions than it
requires. Specifically, the application requests the following unnecessary permissions:
In AndroidManifest.xml
Impact
The "android:minSdkVersion=19" in AndroidManifest.xml indicates the minimal SDK version to
run the application is 19. Android grants permissions to the application during installation on
devices with SDK version lower than 23. If a user installs the application on such a device, the
application will grant more permission than it should. Furthermore, when the BHP application
is launched for the first time, the application requires users to allow the wallet to make and
manage phone calls, as shown in the "Evidence" section. However, we found no features in
the application that would require the "CALL_PHONE" permission.
Requesting permissions that are not needed by the application could negatively impact the
application's user experience and may degrade the application's public reputation.
Evidence
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CALL_PHONE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MOUNT_UNMOUNT_FILESYSTEMS"
/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_LOGS" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_CONTACTS"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MODIFY_AUDIO_SETTINGS" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />

-- 7 of 27 --

Recommendation
Permission requests protect sensitive information available from a device and should only be
used when access to information is necessary for the functioning of the application.
We recommend the following when dealing with Android permissions:
For more information about Android application permission and its best practices, please visit
"https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/usage-notes"
Only require the permissions necessary for the application to work.
While making a permissions request, be clear about what permission the application is
accessing and why the application needs that permission.
Provide continuous indications while accessing sensitive capabilities. Make it clear to the
user when the application is collecting data and avoid the perception that the application
is collecting data surreptitiously.

-- 8 of 27 --

BHP-02: Custom keyboards not disabled in BHP
wallet
Severity: Medium
Description:
The BHP client does not disable custom keyboards. Since a long time ago, users have been
able to install custom keyboards that can be used in any app, replacing the system's default
keyboard. Custom keyboards can, and very frequently do, log and exfiltrate the data users
enter.
The custom keyboard is allowed to use in the mnemonic input field in the BHP application.
Malicious third-party keyboards can log and exfiltrate users' mnemonic. The attacker would
then have total control over the victim's wallet account.
Exploit Scenario
Bob installed a custom keyboard that logs and exfiltrates data he enters on his device. Bob
enters his wallet mnemonic with the custom keyboard, and his mnemonic can be collected by
the third party keyboard.
Recommendation
We have no information regarding how the app artifact(APK and iPA) is built, as there is no
build file in the Github repository. We are not able to provide specific recommendations to
mitigate this issue. In general, third-party keyboards should be disabled in sensitive data input
fields to prevent leakage of sensitive data entered by the user.
Reference:
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiapplication/extensionpointidentifier

-- 9 of 27 --

BHP-03: Information leakage via screenshot
backgrounding
Severity: Low
Intoduction
On mobile devices, a screenshot of the current activity is taken when an application goes into
the background and displayed for aesthetic purposes when the app returns to the foreground.
This feature may pose a security risk. Sensitive data may be exposed if the user background
the application while sensitive data is displayed. A malicious application that is running on the
device and able to continuously capture the screen may also expose data.
Description
The BHP application does not use an overlay to hide or obscure sensitive information such as
wallet balance or the wallet mnemonic on the screen before moving to the background. Such
information may be included in the auto-generated screenshot.
Impact
An attacker with physical access to the unlocked device or a malicious third-party app with
access to the auto-generated screenshot of the BHP application can retrieve sensitive
information included in the screenshot.
Evidence

-- 10 of 27 --

Recommendation
It's recommended for the BHP application to add an overlay to hide or obscure the application
screen before moving to the background.
For iOS, add an overlay screen before the application goes into the background, and remove
the screen when the application goes into the foreground.
For Android, in addition to adding an overlay, this can be done by setting the FLAG_SECURE
option. The FLAG_SECURE flag can prevent sensitive information included in the auto-
generated screenshot.
For more information about the FLAG_SECURE flag, please see https://developer.android.co
m/reference/android/view/Display#FLAG_SECURE and https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9
822076/how-do-i-prevent-android-taking-a-screenshot-when-my-app-goes-to-the-background

-- 11 of 27 --

BHP-04: Ineffective and problematic "confirm
password" implmentation
Severity: Low
Description:
The BHP wallet requires a user to set up a password while creating the wallet. The user
needs to type the same password in both "Password" and "Repeat password" fields to pass
the check. Users are not allowed to finish the wallet creation if two passwords are not the
same. We found that the implementation is ineffective and problematic.
Location
Create wallet interface
Impact
The ineffective and problematic implementation can confuse users and allow users to create
an unintended password. This would negatively influence the application's user experience.
Step to Reproduce
1. Click "Create Wallet" in BHP wallet and enter a valid value such as "111111aa" in both the
"Password" and the "Repeat Password" field.
2. Change the password in the "Password" field to another password such as "22222aaa" and
keep the "Repeat Password" field with "111111aa".
3. Click "Create wallet", and notice the application creates a wallet with the password
"22222aaa".
1. If users modify the value in the "Repeat password" field and then modify the value in the
"Password" field, the validation will fail even if two passwords are the same.
2. If users enter the same password in the "Repeat password" field and the value in the
"Password" field, then modify the value in the "Password" field, the application would let
the user pass the check. However, the value in the "Password" field and "Repeat
password" is different.

-- 12 of 27 --

Recommendation:
The application should perform the validation after users modify the value in either the
"Password" field or the "Repeat Password" field. Make sure the users enter the same
password in both fields.

-- 13 of 27 --

BHP-05: No root or jailbreak detection on
Android/iOS application
Severity: Informational
Description
No root or jailbreak detection is implemented in the application. This allows an attacker to
modify the app on a rooted Android or jailbroken iOS device, which means the attacker can
potentially induce behaviors that otherwise would not occur. Examples of the impact include
accessing sensitive application data, overwriting critical functions, and an overall wider attack
surface.
Impact
A malicious application with root permission can access and modify data belongs to the BHP
application. Combined with the "unnecessary app permissions" issue above, a malicious third-
party application can take advantage of the BHP app permissions and perform more
privileged actions.
Step to Reproduce
Install and run the BHP wallet on a rooted Android or jailbroken iOS device.
Recommendation
Implement root and jailbreak detection at the beginning of the runtime of your application.
Shut down the application or at least display a warning message when a user attempts to use
the wallet on a rooted or jailbroken device.
Some methods to check for a rooted/jailbroken device are listed below:
Android
Check for existing su binaries, such as:
/system/bin/su
/system/xbin/su
/sbin/su
/system/su
/system/bin/.ext/.su
Attempt to use the su command directly and compare the current user ID before and
after to see if the user was successfully upgraded to root.

-- 14 of 27 --

iOS
Utilize SafetyNet by Google. This was developed to try and detect device modifications
and will prevent the application from running if the device fails the checks.
Check for the existence of common files or directories that are associated with a
jailbroken device. A list of some of the potential files to check can be seen here:
/Applications/Cydia.app
/Applications/FakeCarrier.app
/Applications/Icy.app
/usr/bin/sshd
Attempt to write to a file in a location that is outside of the application's virtual sandbox.
An example would be to try and write to the /private directory. This attempt would fail on
a non-jailbroken device because the application does not have permission to access
anything outside of its virtual sandbox, but if the application succeeds in writing to that
location, then it can be deduced that it has root permissions, which means that the
device is jailbroken.

-- 15 of 27 --

BHP-06: Insecure minimum Android SDK version
Severity: Informational
Description
The android:minSdkVersion declared in AndroidManifest.xml is set to 19, which is Android
4.4. Older versions of Android SDK may contain security vulnerabilities that remain
unpatched.
For example, Android versions below Android 5.1 (API level 22) have multiple vulnerabilities in
SQLite that can cause another application or service to execute arbitrary SQL queries.
Successful exploitation could result in arbitrary code execution in the context of the target
application.
Location
AndroidManifest.xml
Impact
The application may be vulnerable to remote code execution if the application runs on Android
version below Android 5.1 (API level 22) and the device has a malicious application installed.
Furthermore, many other security vulnerabilities are already discovered and remain
unpatched in an old version of the Android SDK. An attacker can take advantage of known
vulnerabilities to compromise users' wallets.
Recommendation
Set android:minSdkVersion to at least 23, which is Android 6.0. According to Android
Studio, about 85% of Android devices are Android 6.0 or newer. This can reduce security risks
while not sacrificing the compatibility of the application.

-- 16 of 27 --

BHP-07: Bad cryptography implementation
Severity: Medium
Description
The BHP application stores encrypted private keys and mnemonics in the device. The
application implements encryption in the following way:
1. Generate the sha256 hash of the user password.
2. Use the AES-ECB algorithm to encrypt the hash from step 1 with the user password as the
encryption key.
3. Use the AES-CBC algorithm to encrypt the private key and mnemonics with the ciphertext
from step 2 as the encryption key and plaintext password as IV(initialization vector).
The encryption key derivation mechanism and the use of IV are confusing and improper.
Impact
A securely generated encryption key should be able to against dictionary attack and brute
force attack to some degree. Performing the extra AES-ECB encryption does not extend the
cost of time to brute force the password. If the attacker gets access to the encrypted wallet
data, it's trivially to brute-force the password and decrypts the data.
Recommendation
We recommend using a key derivation function such as Scrypt and Argon2id to generate the
encryption key. Password-based key derivation algorithms are designed to be slow, memory-
hard and therefore will frustrate attempts at parallelization and brute-force password cracking.
The IV used in the AES-CBC encryption algorithms should be a unique and randomly
generated string. The IV can be appended at the front of the ciphertext and store in the
devices. When performing the decryption, simply obtain the IV from the beginning of the
stored data and use it in the decryption.
For more information about Key derivation function, please see:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_derivation_function

-- 17 of 27 --

BHP-08: Mnemonic display allow screenshot
Severity: Informational
Description
The mnemonic phrase is a list of words that can be used to recover a wallet account.
Obtaining the mnemonic can potentially allow the attacker to gain full control of the wallet. The
application warns users not to take screenshot before displaying wallet private keys or
mnemonics. However, on an Android device, screenshot is still allowed while displaying
mnemonics or private key.
Impact
Third-party apps with "READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" permission on an Android device or
apps with all photo access on an iPhone can read screenshots on the device. Third-party
apps can retrieve the mnemonic if the mnemonic is included in a screenshot taken by the
user. Since the application displays warning to the user about not taking screenshots before
showing private keys or mnemonics, we set the serverity of this issue to informational.
Step to Reproduce
1. Open the BHP wallet and create a new wallet.
2. Set up a name and password for the wallet, click "backup" to naviagte to "Backup
Mnemonic" interface.
3. Take a screenshot including mnemonics.
Recommendation
Android
Screen capture can be prevented by setting the FLAG_SECURE option. The FLAG_SECURE
flag can prevent users and malicious third-party apps from recording the mnemonic screens
and taking screenshots of sensitive information.
For more information about the FLAG_SECURE flag, please see “https://developer.android.co
m/reference/android/view/Display#FLAG_SECURE”

-- 18 of 27 --

BHP-09: Uses of insecure protocol
Severity: Low
Description
The communication protocol uses between the BHP mobile application and the server running
on rpc.bhpnet.io and 47.244.216.20 is HTTP instead of HTTPS. Communications
between the application and its server should be protected with TLS (Transport Layer
Security).
Location
https://github.com/bhpnet/bhp-
wallet/blob/507267efa3d788ce4c72821e4efeb3e534d9df16/src/api/api.js
Impact
An attacker suitably positioned to view a legitimate user's network traffic could record and
monitor their interactions with the application and obtain any information the user supplies.
Furthermore, an attacker able to modify traffic could use the application as a platform for
attacks against its users.
export function getAccounts(address) {
return axios.get("http://rpc.bhpnet.io/auth/accounts/" + address,
{ params: {} })
}
export function broadcastTrading(json) {
return axios.post("http://rpc.bhpnet.io/txs", json)
}
export function sendBTC(stx) {
return axios.post("http://47.244.216.20:16969/api/sendrawtransaction",
{
tx: stx
})
}

-- 19 of 27 --

Recommendation
Applications should use transport-level encryption (SSL/TLS) to protect all communications
between the client and the server.

-- 20 of 27 --

Appendix – Methodology
CertiK uses a comprehensive penetration testing methodology which adheres to industry best
practices and standards in security assessments including from OWASP (Open Web
Application Security Project), NIST, PTES (Penetration Testing Execution Standard).
Below is a flowchart of our assessment process:
Coverage and Prioritization
As many components as possible will be tested manually. Priority is generally based on three
factors: critical security controls, sensitive data, and the likelihood of vulnerability.
Critical security controls will always receive the top priority in the test. If a vulnerability is
discovered in the critical security control, the entire application is likely to be compromised,
resulting in a critical-risk to the business. For most applications, critical controls will include the
login page, but it could also include major workflows such as the checkout function in an
online store.

-- 21 of 27 --

The Second priority is given to application components that handle sensitive data. This is
dependent on business priorities, but common examples include payment card data, financial
data, or authentication credentials.
Final priority includes areas of the application that are most likely to be vulnerable. This is
based on CertiK’ experience with similar applications developed using the same technology or
with other applications that fit the same business role. For example, large applications will
often have older sections that are less likely to utilize modern security techniques.
Reconnaissance
CertiK gathers information about the target application from various sources depending on the
type of test being performed. CertiK obtains whatever information that is possible and
appropriate from the client during scoping and supplements it with relevant information that
can be gathered from public sources. This helps provide a better overall picture and
understanding of the target.
Application Mapping
CertiK examines the application, reviewing its contents, and mapping out all its functionalities
and components. CertiK makes use of different tools and techniques to traverse the entire
application and document all input areas and processes. Automated tools are used to scan
the application and it is then manually examined for all its parameters and functionalities.
With this, CertiK creates and widens the overall attack surface of the target application.
Vulnerability Discovery
Using the information that is gathered, CertiK comes up with various attack vectors to test
against the application. CertiK uses a combination of automated tools and manual techniques
to identify vulnerabilities and weaknesses. Industry-recognized testing tools will be used,
including Burp Suite, Nikto, Metasploit, and Kali. Furthermore, any controls in place that would
inhibit the successful exploitation of a particular system will be noted.
Vulnerability Confirmation
After discovering vulnerabilities in the application, CertiK validates the vulnerabilities and
assesses its overall impact. To validate, CertiK performs a Proof-of-Concept of an attack on
the vulnerability, simulating real world scenarios to prove the risk and overall impact of the
vulnerability.

-- 22 of 27 --

Through CertiK’ knowledge and experience on attacks and exploitation techniques, CertiK is
able to process all weaknesses and examine how they can be combined to compromise the
application. CertiK may use different attack chains, leveraging different weaknesses to
escalate and gain a more significant compromise.
To minimize any potential negative impact, vulnerability exploitation was only attempted when
it would not adversely affect production applications and systems, and then only to confirm the
presence of a specific vulnerability. Any attack with the potential to cause system downtime or
seriously impact business continuity was not performed. Vulnerabilities were never exploited
to delete or modify data; only read-level access was attempted. If it appeared possible to
modify data, this was noted in the list of vulnerabilities below.
Immediate escalation of High or Critical Findings
If critical or high findings are found whereby application elements are compromised, client’s
key security contacts will be notified immediately.

-- 23 of 27 --

Vulnerability Classes
Insecure Data Storage • Sensitive Data Store in Plant Text
• Use of Public Storage
• Logging sensitive data
Information Disclosure • Directory Indexing
• Verbose Error Messages
• HTML CommentsDefault Content
Account Policy • Default / Weak Passwords
• Unlimited Login Attempts
• Password Reset
• Insufficient Session Expiration
Session Management • Session Identifier PredictionSession
Hijacking
• Cross-Site Request Forgery
Injection • SQL Injection
• Cross-Site Scripting
• HTML InjectionXML Injection
• OS Command Injection
Broken Access Control • Authentication Bypass
• Authorization Bypass
• Privilege Escalation
• Insecure Inter-Process
Communication(intents, sockets)
Application Resource Handling • Path Traversal
• Predictable Object Identifiers
• XML External Entity Expansion
• Local & Remote File Inclusion
Logic Flaws • Abuse of FunctionalityWorkflow Bypass
Insufficient Cryptography • Weak Hashing Algorithms
• Weak Encryption Algorithms
• Hard Coded Cryptographic Key

-- 24 of 27 --

Security Misconfiguration • Missing Security Headers
• Debugging Enabled
Reverse Engineering and Code Tampering • Lack of Root Detection
• Lack of Tampering Detection
• Lack of Code Obfuscation

-- 25 of 27 --

Risk Assessment
The following risk levels categorize the risk level of issues presented in the report:
Risk Level CVSS Score Impact Exploitability
Critical 9.0-10.0 Root-level or full-
system compromise,
large-scale data
breach
Trivial and
straightforward
High 7.0-8.9 Elevated privilege
access, significant
data loss or
downtime
Easy, vulnerability
details or exploit
code are publicly
available, but may
need additional
attack vectors (e.g.,
social engineering)
Medium 4.0-6.9 Limited access but
can still cause loss of
tangible assets,
which may violate,
harm, or impede the
org's mission,
reputation, or
interests.
Difficult, requires a
skilled attacker,
needs additional
attack vectors,
attacker must reside
on the same network,
requires user
privileges
Low 0.1-3.9 Very little impact on
an org’s business
Extremely difficult,
requires local or
physical system
access
Informational 0.0 Discloses information
that may be of
interest to an
attacker.
Not exploitable but
rather is a weakness
that may be useful to
an attacker should a
higher risk issue be

-- 26 of 27 --

found that allows for
a system exploit

-- 27 of 27 --