FOAM Token Controller Audit
1 Summary
1.1 Audit Dashboard
1.2 Audit Goals
1.3 System Overview
1.4 Key Observations/Recommendations
2 Issue Overview
3 Issue Detail
3.1 When checking proof of use, an unconfirmed whitelisted pair is used.
3.2 Whitelisting mechanism allows immediate trading, without proof of use.
3.3 Blacklist feature is untested
3.4 Whitelisting logic should be simplified.
3.5 Token controller contract assumes behavior of other external contracts
3.6 Variable and function naming should be clearer.
3.7 Token holders must trust the token controller owner fully.
4 Tool based analysis
4.1 Mythril
4.2 Solhint
4.3 Surya
4.4 Odyssey
5 Test Coverage Measurement
Appendix 1 - File Hashes
Appendix 2 - Severity
A.2.1 - Minor
A.2.2 - Medium
A.2.3 - Major
A.2.4 - Critical
Appendix 3 - Disclosure
1 Summary
From August 24th, 2018 to August 31st, 2018, ConsenSys Diligence conducted a security audit on the FOAM token controller. The
findings and recommendations are presented here in this report.
1.1 Audit Dashboard
Audit Details
Project Name: FOAM Token Controller
Client Name: Token Foundry
Client Contact: Stuart Hunter
Auditors: Steve Marx, John Mardlin
GitHub : https://github.com/ConsenSys/foam-controller-audit-2018-08-24
Languages: Solidity
Date: 2018-08-24 to 2018-08-31
Number of issues per severity
3 2 2 0
0 0 0 0
1.2 Audit Goals
The focus of the audit was to verify that the smart contract system is secure, resilient and working according to its specifications. The
audit activities can be grouped in the following three categories:

-- 1 of 9 --

Security: Identifying security related issues within each contract and within the system of contracts.
Sound Architecture: Evaluation of the architecture of this system through the lens of established smart contract best practices and
general software best practices.
Code Correctness and Quality: A full review of the contract source code. The primary areas of focus include:
Correctness
Readability
Sections of code with high complexity
Improving scalability
Quantity and quality of test coverage
1.3 System Overview
Documentation
The following documentation was available to the audit team:
The Foam Token Controller spec explains the goals and basic design of the contract.
Scope
The audit focus was on the FoamTokenController contract. The following graph shows how this contract interacts with the token sale
and FOAM registry contracts. Those contracts were considered out of scope for this audit.

-- 2 of 9 --


-- 3 of 9 --

Flow graph
Design
The token controller contract restricts the ability for FOAM token holders to transfer tokens. Specifically, it requires token holders to
complete "proof of use" before freely exchanging tokens.
1.4 Key Observations/Recommendations
The contract design is fairly straightforward and closely follows the behavior described in the spec.
Test coverage is incomplete: Any contract system that is used on the main net should have as a minimum requirement a 100% test
coverage.
Fix all issues: It is recommended to fix all the issues listed in the below chapters, at the very least the ones with severity Critical,
Major and Medium. All issues have also been created as issues in a separate audit repository.
Comment the code: There are a few places in the code where comments explaining the logic would make it easier to understand
the code.
2 Issue Overview
The following table contains all the issues discovered during the audit. The issues are ordered based on their severity. More detailed
description on the levels of severity can be found in Appendix 2. The table also contains the GitHub status of any discovered issue.
Chapter Issue Title Issue Status Severity
3.1
When checking proof of
use, an unconfirmed
whitelisted pair is used.
3.2
Whitelisting mechanism
allows immediate trading,
without proof of use.
3.3 Blacklist feature is
untested
3.4 Whitelisting logic should
be simplified.
3.5
Token controller contract
assumes behavior of other
external contracts
3.6 Variable and function
naming should be clearer.
3.7
Token holders must trust
the token controller
owner fully.
3 Issue Detail
3.1 When checking proof of use, an unconfirmed whitelisted pair is used.
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/25 The issue is currently under review
Description
When a token holder is part of a whitelisted pair, its proof of use is the sum of both members of the pair. The following code is meant to
determine the other member of a whitelisted pair, but it fails to check that the pairing has been confirmed.
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L120
address secondAddress = whitelisted[_contributor];
An attacker can exploit this bug by calling setWhitelisted and passing the address of any non-contributor that has already completed
the proof of use requirements. This would instantly allow the attacker to make unrestricted token transfers.

-- 4 of 9 --

Remediation
Any time a whitelisted pair is considered, it's critical that only confirmed pairings are considered. This can be accomplished after the
above code by checking that whitelisted[secondAddress] == _contributor.
3.2 Whitelisting mechanism allows immediate trading, without proof of use.
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/24 The issue is currently under review
Description
The FOAM token controller places restrictions on how tokens can be transferred during the first year after the platform's launch. The
"whitelisted pairs" mechanism, which is intended to allow token holders to use their tokens from a secondary account, has the side effect
of allowing early token trades.
A token holder can sell some amount of their tokens to a buyer by whitelisting the buyer and making the transfer. The easiest way to
guarantee such a trade would be to make the buyer be a contract that transfers funds on receipt of the tokens.
More sophisticated schemes would involve whitelisting a contract that acts on the seller's behalf. With a little coordination, a new token
W-FOAM ("wrapped FOAM") could be created, where each W-FOAM can be traded for a FOAM token once tokens can be freely traded
(e.g. one year after launch). Token holders could lock up their FOAM in contracts that would grant them W-FOAM instead, and W-
FOAM could be freely traded on existing token exchanges.
Remediation
Removing the "whitelisting pairs" feature would mitigate this vulnerability, but it's important to note that no remediation will fully
disallow this sort of thing. Determined token holders can always make such financial deals outside of this and associated contracts.
3.3 Blacklist feature is untested
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/27 The issue is currently under review
Description
Test coverage reveals that the blacklisting feature is not covered in any existing tests.
Remediation
Tests should be written that exercise the blacklist. Suggested tests: adding and removing addresses from the list, positive and negative
tests for transfers from blacklisted accounts.
3.4 Whitelisting logic should be simplified.
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/26 The issue is currently under review
Description
The whitelisted pair mechanism contains subtle logic that makes it hard to use it correctly. Creating a whitelisted pair is a two-step
process:
1. First, an account that contributed to the token sale must call setWhitelisted(secondAccount).
2. Second, that other account must call confirmWhitelisted(firstAccount).
The whitelisted mapping serves double duty: whitelisted[a] == b by itself does not necessarily mean that a and b form a whitelisted
pair. Instead, it could be that a completed step 1 above, but the pairing was never confirmed.
This subtlety directly led to the major vulnerability https://github.com/ConsenSys/foam-controller-audit-2018-08-24/issues/25.

-- 5 of 9 --

Remediation
Right now, all consumers of the whitelisted mapping must be careful to check both directions of a pairing to verify that it has been
confirmed. This could be simplified by splitting whitelisted's double duty into two different mappings as follows:
1. proposedPair[a] == b means that a has called setWhitelisted(b), but b has not yet confirmed that pairing.
2. paired[a] == b means that a and b form a confirmed whitelisted pair. This is set in both directions in confirmWhitelisted().
All other functions just need to look at paired[x] to see confirmed pairs only.
3.5 Token controller contract assumes behavior of other external contracts
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/30 The issue is currently under review
Description
The token controller contract makes external calls to the sale and registry contracts. These are trusted contracts which are assumed to
behave in certain ways. If these assumptions are violated in the future, that could lead to misbehavior on the part of the token controller.
Examples
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L45-L46
saleTokensPerUnit = sale.saleTokensPerUnit();
extraTokensPerUnit = sale.extraTokensPerUnit();
These two variables from the sale contract are only read once, at the time of deployment. There's an implicit assumption that they're
constant, which they probably are in this specific instance.
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L122
uint256 contributed = sale.unitContributions(_contributor);
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L132-L133
uint256 tokensStaked = registry.totalStaked(_contributor);
uint256 PoICreated = registry.numApplications(_contributor);
sale.unitContributions(), registry.totalStaked(), and registry.numApplications() are all called without following the
Checks-Effects-Interactions pattern. If they in turn were to make calls to untrusted contracts, this might introduce a reentrancy
vulnerability.
Further, the "whitelisted pair" mechanism assumes that accounts are in two disjoint sets: token sale contributors and non-contributors. If
sale.unitContributions() can change after the token controller is deployed, that assumption may no longer hold.
Remediation
No immediate action is required, but it's a good idea to document these requirements. Larger contract systems tend to accrue hidden
dependencies like this can lead to surprising vulnerabilities in the future.
References
Security Considerations — Solidity 0.4.25 documentation
3.6 Variable and function naming should be clearer.
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/29 The issue is currently under review
Description

-- 6 of 9 --

Descriptive naming is an important way to improve code readability. This code contains several poorly named variables and functions
which make it hard to understand their purpose and proper use.
Examples
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L24
mapping(address => address) public whitelisted;
whitelisted is a poor name, especially when juxtaposed with isBlacklisted. Something like pairedAccounts would be more
descriptive.
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L32
address acceptedAddress = '0x36A9b165ef64767230A7Aded71B04F0911bB1283';
acceptedAddress might be better named blacklistDestinationAddress to make explicit its relationship with the blacklisting feature.
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L49
function setWhitelisted(address _whitelisted) public {
setWhitelisted is a confusing name. Not only is the term "whitelisted" confusing, but this function is merely the first step towards
establishing a whitelisted pair. Perhaps something like proposePairing would be clearer.
contracts/FoamTokenController.sol:L119
function purchaseCheck(address _contributor) internal view returns(bool) {
purchaseCheck would be better named something like hasMetProofOfUse.
Remediation
It's recommended that a pass be taken through the entire contract to establish more descriptive names.
3.7 Token holders must trust the token controller owner fully.
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/28 The issue is currently under review
Description
The token controller contract gives the owner full control over who can transfer tokens and when. Functions like blacklistAddresses
and setPlatformLaunchDate make such changes easy for the token controller owner.
The owner of the token contract can also swap in an entirely new token controller contract at any time, containing custom logic for when
to allow or deny transfers.
This also makes the contract owner's private key a high-value target, as anyone who acquires that key gains control over the tokens.
Remediation
Transparency about the trust model is encouraged. Token holders should understand that the token's functionality is entirely controlled by
the the accounts that own the contracts involved.
Special care should be taken to protect the private key for the owning account, including perhaps deploying from a multisig contract to
mitigate the damage from key compromise.
4 Tool based analysis
The issues from the tool based analysis have been reviewed and the relevant issues have been listed in chapter 3 - Issues.

-- 7 of 9 --

4.1 Mythril
Mythril is a security analysis tool for Ethereum smart contracts. It uses concolic analysis to detect various types
of issues. The tool was used for automated vulnerability discovery for all audited contracts and libraries. More
details on Mythril's current vulnerability coverage can be found here.
The raw output of the Mythril vulnerability scan can be found here.
4.2 Solhint
This is an open source project for linting Solidity code. The project provides both Security and Style Guide
validations. The issues of Solhint were analyzed for security relevant issues only. It is still recommended to use
Solhint during development to improve code quality while writing smart contracts.
The raw output of the Solhint vulnerability scan can be found here.
4.3 Surya
Surya is an utility tool for smart contract systems. It provides a number of visual outputs and information about structure of smart
contracts. It also supports querying the function call graph in multiple ways to aid in the manual inspection and control flow analysis of
contracts.
A complete list of functions with their visibility and modifiers can be found here.
4.4 Odyssey
Odyssey is an audit tool that acts as the glue between developers, auditors and tools. It leverages GitHub as the
platform for building software and aligns to the approach that quality needs to be addressed as early as possible in
the development life cycle and small iterative security activities spread out through development help to produce a
more secure smart contract system. In its current version Odyssey helps to better communicate audit issues to
development teams and to successfully close them.
5 Test Coverage Measurement
Testing is implemented using Truffle. 50 tests are included in the test suite and they all pass.
The Solidity-Coverage tool was used to measure the portion of the code base exercised by the test suite, and identify areas with little or
no coverage. Specific sections of the code where necessary test coverage is missing are included in chapter 3 - Issues.
It's important to note that "100% test coverage" is not a silver bullet. Our review also included a inspection of the test suite, to ensure that
testing included important edge cases.
The state of test coverage at the time of our review can be viewed by opening the index.html file from the coverage report directory in a
browser.
Appendix 1 - File Hashes
Find the full list of files in the scope including SHA1 hashes in the Surya tool directory.
Appendix 2 - Severity
A.2.1 - Minor
Minor issues are generally subjective in nature, or potentially deal with topics like "best practices" or "readability". Minor issues in
general will not indicate an actual problem or bug in code.
The maintainers should use their own judgment as to whether addressing these issues improves the codebase.
A.2.2 - Medium
Medium issues are generally objective in nature but do not represent actual bugs or security problems.
These issues should be addressed unless there is a clear reason not to.

-- 8 of 9 --

A.2.3 - Major
Major issues will be things like bugs or security vulnerabilities. These issues may not be directly exploitable, or may require a certain
condition to arise in order to be exploited.
Left unaddressed these issues are highly likely to cause problems with the operation of the contract or lead to a situation which allows the
system to be exploited in some way.
A.2.4 - Critical
Critical issues are directly exploitable bugs or security vulnerabilities.
Left unaddressed these issues are highly likely or guaranteed to cause major problems or potentially a full failure in the operations of the
contract.
Appendix 3 - Disclosure
ConsenSys Diligence (“CD”) typically receives compensation from one or more clients (the “Clients”) for performing the analysis
contained in these reports (the “Reports”). The Reports may be distributed through other means, including via ConsenSys publications
and other distributions.
The Reports are not an endorsement or indictment of any particular project or team, and the Reports do not guarantee the security of any
particular project. This Report does not consider, and should not be interpreted as considering or having any bearing on, the potential
economics of a token, token sale or any other product, service or other asset. Cryptographic tokens are emergent technologies and carry
with them high levels of technical risk and uncertainty. No Report provides any warranty or representation to any Third-Party in any
respect, including regarding the bugfree nature of code, the business model or proprietors of any such business model, and the legal
compliance of any such business. No third party should rely on the Reports in any way, including for the purpose of making any decisions
to buy or sell any token, product, service or other asset. Specifically, for the avoidance of doubt, this Report does not constitute
investment advice, is not intended to be relied upon as investment advice, is not an endorsement of this project or team, and it is not a
guarantee as to the absolute security of the project. CD owes no duty to any Third-Party by virtue of publishing these Reports.
PURPOSE OF REPORTS The Reports and the analysis described therein are created solely for Clients and published with their consent.
The scope of our review is limited to a review of Solidity code and only the Solidity code we note as being within the scope of our review
within this report. The Solidity language itself remains under development and is subject to unknown risks and flaws. The review does
not extend to the compiler layer, or any other areas beyond Solidity that could present security risks. Cryptographic tokens are emergent
technologies and carry with them high levels of technical risk and uncertainty.
CD makes the Reports available to parties other than the Clients (i.e., “third parties”) -- on its GitHub account
(https://github.com/ConsenSys). CD hopes that by making these analyses publicly available, it can help the blockchain ecosystem
develop technical best practices in this rapidly evolving area of innovation.
LINKS TO OTHER WEB SITES FROM THIS WEB SITE You may, through hypertext or other computer links, gain access to web sites
operated by persons other than ConsenSys and CD. Such hyperlinks are provided for your reference and convenience only, and are the
exclusive responsibility of such web sites' owners. You agree that ConsenSys and CD are not responsible for the content or operation of
such Web sites, and that ConsenSys and CD shall have no liability to you or any other person or entity for the use of third party Web sites.
Except as described below, a hyperlink from this web Site to another web site does not imply or mean that ConsenSys and CD endorses
the content on that Web site or the operator or operations of that site. You are solely responsible for determining the extent to which you
may use any content at any other web sites to which you link from the Reports. ConsenSys and CD assumes no responsibility for the use
of third party software on the Web Site and shall have no liability whatsoever to any person or entity for the accuracy or completeness of
any outcome generated by such software.
TIMELINESS OF CONTENT The content contained in the Reports is current as of the date appearing on the Report and is subject to
change without notice. Unless indicated otherwise, by ConsenSys and CD.

-- 9 of 9 --