Simple MultiSig Wallet Audit
1 Summary
1.1 Key Observations/Recommendations
1.2 Audit Dashboard
1.3 Audit Goals
1.4 System Overview
2 Issue Overview
3 Issue Detail
3.1 Signed data should include the sender
3.2 Signed data should include the gas limit
3.3 Failed transactions should not be replayable
3.4 A reasonable threshold should be required
3.5 Consider whitelisting function calls to standard ERC20/ERC223 functions
3.6 Use the latest Solidity compiler
3.7 Passing multiple arguments to keccak256 is deprecated
3.8 The execute function can be external rather than public
4 Threat Model
4.1 Overview
4.2 Threat Analysis
5 Tool based analysis
5.1 Mythril
5.2 Solhint
5.3 Surya
6 Test Coverage Measurement
Appendix 1 ‑ File Hashes
Appendix 2 ‑ Severity
A.2.1 ‑ Minor
A.2.2 ‑ Medium
A.2.3 ‑ Major
A.2.4 ‑ Critical
Appendix 3 ‑ Disclosure
1 Summary
ConsenSys Diligence conducted a security audit for the SimpleMultiSig contract. The contract will at first be used to store and
transfer ether. It may be used to store and transfer tokens or other assets in the future.
Number of issues per severity
1 0 0 0
3 4 0 0
1.1 Key Observations/Recommendations

-- 1 of 9 --

Simple contract design: The contract design is excellent. The simplicity of the contract means there's a very small attack
surface.
Clear code: The code is well written and commented.
The signatures used with this wallet lock down key parameters of a transaction, such as the recipient and payload, but they leave the
following parameters unconstrained:
the initiator of the transaction
the gas limit supplied
the timing of the transaction
These free parameters are the primary surface area for an attacker. The recommended changes detailed in section 3 mostly relate to
reducing the attack surface area by constraining these remaining parameters. In some cases, reducing the surface area also
reduces functionality. For a wallet that will control assets of considerable value, we believe that tradeoff is worthwhile.
1.2 Audit Dashboard
Audit Details
Project Name: Simple MultiSig Wallet
Auditors: Steve Marx, Dean Pierce
Internal Reviewer: J. Maurelian
Languages: Solidity
Date: 2018‑09‑11 to 2018‑09‑24
1.3 Audit Goals
The focus of the audit was to verify that the smart contract system is secure, resilient and working according to its specifications. The
audit activities can be grouped in the following three categories:
Security: Identifying security related issues within each contract and within the system of contracts.
Sound Architecture: Evaluation of the architecture of this system through the lens of established smart contract best practices and
general software best practices.
Code Correctness and Quality: A full review of the contract source code. The primary areas of focus include:
Correctness
Readability
Sections of code with high complexity
Improving scalability
Quantity and quality of test coverage
1.4 System Overview
Scope
The scope of this audit was the single file SimpleMultiSig-v1.0.4 .
Design
The SimpleMultiSig contract is an m‑of‑n multisig wallet that uses minimal usable state. Signatures are gathered offline and
submitted together to execute a transaction.
2 Issue Overview

-- 2 of 9 --

The following table contains all the issues discovered during the audit. The issues are ordered based on their severity. More detailed
description on the levels of severity can be found in Appendix 2. The table also contains the GitHub status of any discovered issue.
Chapter Issue Title Issue Status Severity
3.1 Signed data should include the sender
3.2 Signed data should include the gas limit
3.3 Failed transactions should not be replayable
3.4 A reasonable threshold should be required
3.5 Consider whitelisting function calls to standard ERC20/ERC223 functions
3.6 Use the latest Solidity compiler
3.7 Passing multiple arguments to keccak256 is deprecated
3.8 The execute function can be external rather than public
3 Issue Detail
3.1 Signed data should include the sender
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/32 This was fixed in https://github.com/christianlundkvist/simple‑
multisig/commit/179a6834e80a39f5f709a6a92107bec2673aa89e.
Description
execute() can be called by anyone in possession of threshold valid signatures. This opens up a front‑running opportunity where an
attacker observes a desired call to execute() and sends their own transaction with the same signatures. This changes the tx.origin
for the transaction, which may affect the result.
Furthermore, locking down the sender to a trusted (by the owners) party could mitigate cross‑chain replay attacks by not allowing an
attacker to submit the transaction on the other chain.
Example
Below is a contrived example of a target contract that an attacker could manipulate by front‑running with their own transaction:
function() public payable {
// Behavior differs according to tx.origin.
if (tx.origin == owner) {
// Bad attempt at a refund?
tx.origin.transfer(msg.value);
} else {
// Track how much ether has been deposited
balance += msg.value;
}
}
Remediation
Add msg.sender to the signed data.

-- 3 of 9 --

3.2 Signed data should include the gas limit
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/31
This is considered mitigated by adding the executor to the signature in
https://github.com/christianlundkvist/simple‑
multisig/commit/179a6834e80a39f5f709a6a92107bec2673aa89e. The gas limit was also
included, but there is no check for sufficient gas, so this only prevents issues involving
providing too much gas.
Description
execute() can be called by anyone in possession of threshold valid signatures. The signatures do not specify how much gas will be
forwarded to the destination address. This allows an attacker, by front‑running a legitimate call, to make the same call with a different
amount of gas.
If the executed call succeeds but behaves differently based on the amount of gas provided, an attacker could use this technique to
affect the outcome.
Example
Below is a contrived example of a target contract that fails to transfer funds if insufficient gas is provided. An attacker maliciously
lowering the provided gas could result in locked ether or simply a denial of service attack against the wallet owners.
function withdraw(address destination) external {
uint256 amount = balance;
balance = 0;
// Silently fails with insufficient gas
destination.call.value(amount)();
}
Remediation
Add the gas limit as a parameter to execute() and include that parameter in the signature.
3.3 Failed transactions should not be replayable
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/30
The project team considers this unnecessary due to the addition of an executor in the
signed data in https://github.com/christianlundkvist/simple‑
multisig/commit/179a6834e80a39f5f709a6a92107bec2673aa89e.
Description
If a call to execute() with proper signatures fails because the resulting call does, the nonce is not incremented. Until the nonce is
used for a different transaction, anyone can attempt that original transaction again. If the transaction has different behavior in the
future (e.g. because the destination contract was destroyed or a crowdsale moved to a different phase), this may be an opportunity for
an attacker to make mischief.
Example
Below is a contrived example of a target contract that reveals this vulnerability. The initial call to reverts with attached ether will fail,
but if the contract is later selfdestruct ed, replaying that transaction would result in lost ether, as there would be no code to revert
the transaction.
function reverts() external payable {
revert();

-- 4 of 9 --

}
function kill() external {
require(msg.sender == owner);
selfdestruct(msg.sender);
}
Remediation
We suggest two changes to address this vulnerability:
1. As suggested in other issues, specify the transaction sender in the signature. This means that only the sender can retry a failed
transaction. Depending on the trust model and security of the sender, this may be sufficient.
2. Increment the nonce even when the call fails. (Remove require(success) .) Note that this should only be done if the sender
and/or gas limit have been locked down. (If those changes are not made, then increasing the nonce on failed transactions makes it
easier for an attacker to mount a denial of service attack by front‑running with insufficient gas and forcing the call to fail,
consuming the nonce.)
If suggestion 2 above is not taken, then we recommend both of the following additional remediations:
1. Specify a maximum block number parameter and include that parameter in the signature. Reject any transactions if the maximum
block number has passed. This limits an attacker's window of opportunity to an arbitrarily small number of blocks.
2. As an operational procedure, any time a transaction fails, submit a new "no‑op" transaction with the same nonce to replace the
failed one and prevent future replay attempts. (A good "no‑op" transaction would be a transfer of 0 ether to the wallet contract.)
3.4 A reasonable threshold should be required
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/26
This was fixed in https://github.com/christianlundkvist/simple‑
multisig/commit/1d8ad609e57a4326230a05250a3b72b7356c2ba7. The threshold is now
required to be positive.
Currently, the code allows for a threshold of 0 , which is somewhat nonsensical and would allow anyone to call execute
successfully without any signatures.
SimpleMultiSig‑v1.0.4.sol:L11
require(owners_.length <= 10 && threshold_ <= owners_.length && threshold_ >= 0);
A threshold greater than 0 should be required, and consideration should be given to requiring something stricter (like a majority:
threshold > owners_.length / 2 ).
3.5 Consider whitelisting function calls to standard ERC20/ERC223 functions
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/29 The issue is currently under review
As it exists now, the contract can make arbitrary calls to arbitrary contracts. To reduce the potential attack surface, it might be useful to
whitelist which functions can be called on remote contracts or even what contracts can be called, if at all possible. We recommend that
the whitelist be hardcoded and unchangeable once deployed. If requirements change, a new multisig contract can be deployed with
updated capabilities.
3.6 Use the latest Solidity compiler
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment

-- 5 of 9 --

Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/25 The compiler version was bumped to 0.4.24 in https://github.com/christianlundkvist/simple‑
multisig/commit/f63ef72e448ecef85dd61ad5a3727c7dba4e4377.
The codebase uses pragmas that are set to an older version of Solidity. Use the most recent version of Solidity (0.4.25 at the time of
this audit).
3.7 Passing multiple arguments to keccak256 is deprecated
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/24 The latest version of the code uses abi.encodePacked .
SimpleMultiSig‑v1.0.4.sol:L29
bytes32 txHash = keccak256(byte(0x19), byte(0), this, destination, value, data, nonce);
should be updated accordingly.
SimpleMultiSig-v1.0.4.sol:30:22: Warning: This function only accepts a single "bytes" argument. Please use
"abi.encodePacked(...)" or a similar function to encode the data.
bytes32 txHash = keccak256(byte(0x19), byte(0), this, destination, value, data, nonce);
^-------------------------------------------------------------------^
3.8 The execute function can be external rather than public
Severity Status Link Remediation Comment
issues/23
Marking the function external would leave the data in call data (rather than memory),
requiring other changes to the function. It was decided that leaving this function public is
simpler.
Because it is never called internally, this function can be made external . This likely has no security implications but will save gas.
4 Threat Model
The creation of a threat model is beneficial when building smart contract systems as it helps to understand the potential security
threats, assess risk, and identify appropriate mitigation strategies.
A threat model was created during the audit process in order to analyze the attack surface of the contract system and to focus review
and testing efforts on key areas that a malicious actor would likely also attack.
4.1 Overview
The multisig wallet is intended to have two important properties:
1. It allows authorized access.
2. It disallows unauthorized access.
It's a common mistake to only focus on the second property, but the first property is also critical. The owners of the wallet lose just as
much from having their access blocked as they lose from an attacker transferring the assets away. An attacker can mount a denial of
service attack simply to make mischief or as a way to extort the owners.
4.2 Threat Analysis

-- 6 of 9 --

Threat Consequence Mitigation
Owners'
private keys
are lost.
If no more than threshold private keys are
available, the wallet owners can no longer
access the controlled funds.
Using a sufficiently large number of owner accounts means that
many keys would have to be lost before losing access to the wallet.
An attacker
executes an
unauthorized
transaction.
All assets could be transferred to an
attacker's account.
Only transactions signed by threshold keys can be executed. The
signature specifies the destination, value, and data for the
transaction, so these cannot be tampered with. Suggestions made
in section 3 mitigate other changes that an attacker may make
without changing the signature.
An attacker
replays an
executed
transaction.
At a minimum, more assets could be
transferred away than intended (e.g.
paying multiple times for the same
service). Given that the contract can make
arbitrary calls, the risks of replay attacks
cannot be fully enumerated.
Replay attacks are mitigated by the use of a nonce and EIP191
signatures, which include the contract address as part of the
signature. Replaying a failed transaction can be mitigated by
replacing the failed transaction with a no‑op (like a transfer of 0
ether) to consume the nonce. Suggestions in section 3 further
reduce the risk of replay attacks.
5 Tool based analysis
The issues from the tool based analysis have been reviewed and the relevant issues have been listed in chapter 3 ‑ Issues.
5.1 Mythril
Mythril is a security analysis tool for Ethereum smart contracts. It uses concolic analysis to detect various types
of issues. The tool was used for automated vulnerability discovery for all audited contracts and libraries. More
details on Mythril's current vulnerability coverage can be found here.
The raw output of the Mythril vulnerability scan has been reviewed, and none of the findings have been deemed
a legitimate threat.
5.2 Solhint
This is an open source project for linting Solidity code. The project provides both Security and Style Guide
validations. The issues of Solhint were analyzed for security relevant issues only. It is still recommended to use
Solhint during development to improve code quality while writing smart contracts.
5.3 Surya
Surya is an utility tool for smart contract systems. It provides a number of visual outputs and information about structure of smart
contracts. It also supports querying the function call graph in multiple ways to aid in the manual inspection and control flow analysis of
contracts.
6 Test Coverage Measurement
The Solidity‑Coverage tool was used to measure the portion of the code base exercised by the test suite and identify areas with little or
no coverage.
The existing tests at the time of this audit achieve 100% test coverage.
It's important to note that "100% test coverage" is not a silver bullet. The issues outlined in section 3 exist despite 100% coverage and
passing tests.
Appendix 1 ‑ File Hashes
The SHA1 hashes of the source code files in scope of the audit are listed in the table below.

-- 7 of 9 --

File Name SHA‑1 Hash File Name SHA‑1 Hash
SimpleMultiSig‑v1.0.4.sol bd300504603a75bb4c5f4e0fba283c11e555dad0
Appendix 2 ‑ Severity
A.2.1 ‑ Minor
Minor issues are generally subjective in nature, or potentially deal with topics like "best practices" or "readability". Minor issues in
general will not indicate an actual problem or bug in code.
The maintainers should use their own judgment as to whether addressing these issues improves the codebase.
A.2.2 ‑ Medium
Medium issues are generally objective in nature but do not represent actual bugs or security problems.
These issues should be addressed unless there is a clear reason not to.
A.2.3 ‑ Major
Major issues will be things like bugs or security vulnerabilities. These issues may not be directly exploitable, or may require a certain
condition to arise in order to be exploited.
Left unaddressed these issues are highly likely to cause problems with the operation of the contract or lead to a situation which allows
the system to be exploited in some way.
A.2.4 ‑ Critical
Critical issues are directly exploitable bugs or security vulnerabilities.
Left unaddressed these issues are highly likely or guaranteed to cause major problems or potentially a full failure in the operations of
the contract.
Appendix 3 ‑ Disclosure
ConsenSys Diligence (“CD”) typically receives compensation from one or more clients (the “Clients”) for performing the analysis
contained in these reports (the “Reports”). The Reports may be distributed through other means, including via ConsenSys publications
and other distributions.
The Reports are not an endorsement or indictment of any particular project or team, and the Reports do not guarantee the security of
any particular project. This Report does not consider, and should not be interpreted as considering or having any bearing on, the
potential economics of a token, token sale or any other product, service or other asset. Cryptographic tokens are emergent
technologies and carry with them high levels of technical risk and uncertainty. No Report provides any warranty or representation to
any Third‑Party in any respect, including regarding the bugfree nature of code, the business model or proprietors of any such business
model, and the legal compliance of any such business. No third party should rely on the Reports in any way, including for the purpose
of making any decisions to buy or sell any token, product, service or other asset. Specifically, for the avoidance of doubt, this Report
does not constitute investment advice, is not intended to be relied upon as investment advice, is not an endorsement of this project or
team, and it is not a guarantee as to the absolute security of the project. CD owes no duty to any Third‑Party by virtue of publishing
these Reports.
PURPOSE OF REPORTS The Reports and the analysis described therein are created solely for Clients and published with their consent.
The scope of our review is limited to a review of Solidity code and only the Solidity code we note as being within the scope of our
review within this report. The Solidity language itself remains under development and is subject to unknown risks and flaws. The review
does not extend to the compiler layer, or any other areas beyond Solidity that could present security risks. Cryptographic tokens are
emergent technologies and carry with them high levels of technical risk and uncertainty.

-- 8 of 9 --

CD makes the Reports available to parties other than the Clients (i.e., “third parties”) ‑‑ on its GitHub account
(https://github.com/ConsenSys). CD hopes that by making these analyses publicly available, it can help the blockchain ecosystem
develop technical best practices in this rapidly evolving area of innovation.
LINKS TO OTHER WEB SITES FROM THIS WEB SITE You may, through hypertext or other computer links, gain access to web sites
operated by persons other than ConsenSys and CD. Such hyperlinks are provided for your reference and convenience only, and are the
exclusive responsibility of such web sites' owners. You agree that ConsenSys and CD are not responsible for the content or operation
of such Web sites, and that ConsenSys and CD shall have no liability to you or any other person or entity for the use of third party Web
sites. Except as described below, a hyperlink from this web Site to another web site does not imply or mean that ConsenSys and CD
endorses the content on that Web site or the operator or operations of that site. You are solely responsible for determining the extent
to which you may use any content at any other web sites to which you link from the Reports. ConsenSys and CD assumes no
responsibility for the use of third party software on the Web Site and shall have no liability whatsoever to any person or entity for the
accuracy or completeness of any outcome generated by such software.
TIMELINESS OF CONTENT The content contained in the Reports is current as of the date appearing on the Report and is subject to
change without notice. Unless indicated otherwise, by ConsenSys and CD.

-- 9 of 9 --